 UNIT 3: SOCIAL MEDIA IN BUSINESS 
Learning aim A : Explore the impact of social media on the ways in which businesses promote their products and services 
 
P1 EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENT WAYS IN WHICH A BUSINESS CAN USE SOCIAL MEDIA. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The chambers of commerce are the recipients of this written report. In this article, I will discuss and detail how some businesses may utilise social media to advertise their brands, services, and goods. 
Businesses should consider before creating a social media page. This is because certain businesses do not gain any benefits from social media and the disadvantages mostly outweigh the advantages. Businesses that do not use any technology or smart devices or are unable to access the internet would not benefit from a social media page because it would not reach their target audience. Businesses such as e-commerce sites would benefit from a social media page. This is because their target audience have a smart device and they have access to the internet. 
Businesses use social media to promote their products and services through different platforms. They do this to post content and update customers on latest content, for example, updating customers on new products, events or replying to customers. The more social media platforms a brand or business are on then the more of a broader audience they can reach.
Businesses that use social media need to set goals and achievements that are short term and long term. Having short term goals such as keeping to the posting schedule, this makes the business look organised and the audience know when to expect and this can drive in more traffic to the page, broadening the audience. Long term goals such as optimising SEO (Search engine optimisation) and measure the analytics to increase traffic to the brands social media page to increase their target audience.
RANGE OF PURPOSES FOR BUSINESS USE: CREATING A BRAND OR IMAGE 
 
Nike 
Nike is an excellent website that demonstrates a business using social media to create an image. Nike use multiple social media platforms to promote their brands in different ways. They predominantly use: Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube. On Facebook they have over 35 million likes and over 36 million people follow the page. On Twitter Nike have 8.8 million followers. On Instagram Nike have many different accounts, the Nike page has 179 million followers, Nike Football has 43.3 million followers and Nike golf have 992 thousand followers. Nikes twitter account has 8.8 million followers. Also, Nikes YouTube has 1.66 million subscribers. Nike use these different social medias to promote and advertise their products. They also use social medias to respond to customers and act as a customer support.
A consistent theme in every account is they all have the iconic Nike tick logo in their profile pictures 
This emblem is easily remembered by people, and it creates a brand image by being simplistic and only using two colours. This means it is easier for people to distinguish their brands and recognise their logo and will recognise it on their clothing items or on advertisements. Another theme on all the Nike social media pages is their slogan “Just Do It” that appears in their bio’s.
 
The Just Do It started from a Nike campaign but became an iconic slogan for their brand and their identity. It features also in their banner on both Twitter and YouTube, it also features on their items of clothing too.
For the most of its history, Nike's logo was predominantly red and white. The colour red is associated with passion, vitality, and excitement, whereas the colour white is associated with nobility, charm, and purity. White and black have been the predominant colours utilised to portray the logo on their shoes and apparel in previous years.
Nike has created their own font that looks like that of a customized Futura Family Font. Futura Condensed Extra Bold Oblique is the closest font currently available.
Nike’s ideology is innovation, sustainability, responsibly resourcing, creating a diverse community and equality among everyone. These key value makes people and customers respect and trust the brand more and they show their values through each social media platform 
 

RANGE OF PURPOSES FOR BUSINESS USE: PROMOTING A PRODUCT OR SERVICE 
 
Nike Inc.'s advertising aim is to reach a wide number of target users with the greatest potential impact. Customers are exposed to the brand through successful ads on their social media.
 
 Consumers' perceptions of Nike and its products are also improved by these posts. Even while advertising is an efficient marketing strategy, it is often expensive, having to pay photographers, editors and graphic designers to produce the ads. None the less, Nike benefits from a better brand image and increased demand for its products as a result of effective execution. Back in the day the Nike’s high expense of advertising used to cripple their profits, nowadays they use free or cheaper advertising methods through social media. For example, on Facebook Nike pay money to Facebook to advertise their post on their user's feed. 
This will get the post more views and interactions, resulting in more sales. Nike also use free advertisements; they do this through twitter and to regularly post content and not direct advertise. 

Celebrities are used by Nike to symbolise the ideal client or user of their products. Advertisements for the corporation feature well-known figures such as professional athletes. Customers notice that their favourite celebrities wear Nike. As a result, these clients are more likely to buy and wear or use these products. Nikes marketing strategically use these celebrity endorsements to clients by persuading them to replicate how these celebrities like the Nike brand through famous figures in advertising.
 

Nike post all their advertisements on YouTube. These are video ads that are either 30 seconds to 1 minute, or a short film to promote their product. They also use celebrity endorsements in these videos too, grabs the customers attention as it is someone they recognise, and they are more likely to watch the full advert. 



Explain the different purposes for using social media. 
You must include real life screenshot examples for each describing how businesses use social media to achieve the following: 
 
-	Promoting products and/or services 
How does your example illustrate this purpose? What platform does your example use? What features allow it to fulfil this purpose? 
Remember to reference your examples as you go. 
•	How do businesses use advertisement to promote their social media? 
•	How they boost their SEO
•	How many organic searches do they get compared to advertisements?
 
RANGE OF PURPOSES FOR BUSINESS USE: COMMUNICATING WITH CUSTOMERS 
 
Game development company Blizzard often use twitter to post about recent updates. They use twitter because it reaches out their audience quickly and it’s the platform that the majority of their audience use 
 
This is a great example of Blizzard’s quick response time. This post is to notify players that the players may experience high latency or be disconnected from the server. This notifies players that there is an issue, and they are trying to resolve this, another benefit of this is that their support won’t be overload with the same problem as this tweet addresses the issue to everyone.

Another good example of a brand communicating with customers is Nike
 
In this example Nike are replying to someone’s tweet making it direct to the individual, instead of an audience or a group. In the reply Nike are reassuring the customer by saying “Give us a shout if you need anything else”, this increases the customers trust with the brand. They also reply to the customer in a positive way for their error, this makes the customers feel as they can easily ask for help.

Explain the different purposes for using social media. 
You must include real life screenshot examples for each describing how businesses use social media to achieve the following: 
-	Communicating with customers  
How does your example illustrate this purpose? What platform does your example use? What features allow it to fulfil this purpose? 
Remember to reference your examples as you go. 
 
RANGE OF PURPOSES FOR BUSINESS USE: RESOLVING QUERIES AND MANAGING ISSUES
 
Airline company JetBlue Airways are notorious for their customer service. They are most known for their quick response times to customers; this is crucial for their brand as angry or confused customers with little patience tweet at them asking about their flights.
 
This a good example that shows quick and efficient customer service. The customer tweeted on a public twitter thread a message that shows his frustration that his flight has been delayed, though he does not tag or included JetBlue in the tweet he used their hashtag #jetBlue. Within an hour JetBlue sent a response asking what number the flight was so they can track it. The customer quickly responds with the number and tags JetBlue in the tweet. JetBlue immediately responds saying what time the flight will leave and reassures the customer that they will get him home safely. This quick response time and quick resolution is publicly displayed so customers trust JetBlue to get a quick response and will use them more.
Another way businesses can respond to customers is through private messages. This is especially used for confidential or private information that could be misused in a public thread. Also, some social media platforms do not support any public threads so the customers only option is to send a private message.

Explain the different purposes for using social media. 
You must include real life screenshot examples for each describing how businesses use social media to achieve the following: 
-	Customer service  
How does your example illustrate this purpose? What platform does your example use? What features allow it to fulfil this purpose? 
Remember to reference your examples as you go. 
 
RANGE OF PURPOSES FOR BUSINESS USE: CUSTOMER SERVICE

PlayStation have great customer service. This is because they have a separate support page on Twitter. Ask PlayStation was created to draw all the negative comments and questions way from the main twitter page to ruin the brands reputation.  
The page clearly shows that it is the official support page for PlayStation. Then they state the different languages they give the support to. This is useful as people from other countries can see if the support page. They also provide times in what periods of the day customers can contact them. The time they provide is in PDT (Pacific standard time). This time is used internationally and around the world so people can easily read or translate the time.

Explain the different purposes for using social media. 
You must include real life screenshot examples for each describing how businesses use social media to achieve the following: 
-	Resolving queries and managing issues 
How does your example illustrate this purpose? What platform does your example use? What features allow it to fulfil this purpose? 
Remember to reference your examples as you go. 
 
P2 EXPLAIN THE AUDIENCE PROFILES OF DIFFERENT SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITES. 
 
AUDIENCE PROFILES: SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE 1 
An audience profile is the technique of profiling the characteristics of the audience of a specific business or advertising medium is known as audience profiling. An audience profile is a description or profile of a consumer based on demographics, social, and economic qualities, among other factors.
Facebook
 Facebook was created on the 4th of February 2004.Facebook is designed for younger audiences; this is because the more recent generation are more reliant on modern technology and Facebook is a platform for groups of teenagers/young adults to be bought together and talk via the internet.
 
(Tankovska, 2019) 
As the graph shows that the age group that uses Facebook the most is 25-34 year olds. Facebook use this data to target this age group by adding features such as Facebook Marketplace. This feature allows users to sell their items so other users can purchase them, this targets their age group as young adults often move house or sell more items, so this is beneficial because there is no selling fee. Facebook marketplace has groups that post sell specific items, this feature allows people to join the group to find what they want. 
56% of Facebooks users identify as Male, as the other 44% of users identify as Female. With this information brands and businesses can decide whether it is worth creating a social media page based on their gender demographics, this could mean businesses can promote more products or services for men.

Facebooks user’s income varies.  
As the graph shows all the incomes are round about 80%. This shows that anyone can have a Facebook account and it has a disperd user base.

A unique feature of Facebook is events. Members may use Facebook events to inform their friends about future events in their neighbourhood and to plan social gatherings. An event must include a name, a network, a host, an event type, a start time, a location, and a guest list of invited friends. Public and private events are also possible. Private events are not searchable and are only open to those who have been invited. The description, Wall, and images of a private event are not visible to anyone who have not been invited. They won't see any Feed stories on the event, either. The user may select whether or not to enable friends to add photographs or videos while creating an event. It's worth noting that, unlike in real life, all occurrences are handled as unique entities. Another feature is groups. Individual users can create Facebook Groups. Members can publish links, media, questions, events, editable documents, and comments on these items in groups. Groups facilitate cooperation by allowing for conversations, events, and a variety of other activities. They're a means for a group of individuals to get together online to share knowledge and talk about certain topics.

Summery
Businesses that have male affordable products or services would want to target Facebook. For example, a business is Nivea men. Nivea Men has a Facebook page to target men from the age of 20 to 40. This fits in a large bracket of Facebooks age group. Their products being directed towards males is beneficial as Facebooks has more Male users. As Facebooks users have various income Nivea Men can use this as their products are affordable so practically every user can afford to buy their products.



Define what an audience profile is. 
 
For 5 social media platforms, introduce the audience profile for each. e.g. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram. 
 
For each platform, identify: 
-	Age of audience profile 
-	Gender of audience profile 
-	Income of audience profile 
-	Features that appeal to audience 
 
You must give factual statics to support your audience profile, drawing together a summary of the groups that may use that platform and for what purpose. 
 
Additional considerations: 
-	When was it created? 
-	What was/is the purpose of the page? 
-	What features does the platform have? 
-	How does this feature allow a business to achieve it is purpose (see P1)? 
-	What is the demographic for this platform? 
-	Is this tied into the platform design choices? 
-	What type of content may you find on this platform? 
 
AUDIENCE PROFILES: SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE 2 
Twitter
Twitter is a microblogging platform that allows people to express their activities and opinions. Twitter was founded on the 21st of 2006.  • Global Twitter user age distribution 2021 | Statista
As you can see on the graph most of Twitters users are between 25-34 years old, it composes 34.5% of the graph.
 
As the graph demonstrates the usage of Twitter throughout Great Britain between gender fluctuates throughout the month. However, if we average it more men on average use Twitter than Females. 
 The graph above shows that majority of Twitters users earn over £45k a year, this composes 60% of the graph. Businesses and brands with expensive products or services can use this to decide weather they want to create an account.
The most unique feature of Twitter is tweeting. This is like an open thread message that anyone can view and comment on. This allows businesses and brands to reach out to a wider target audience and can get more reactions and views for their advertisements.

 

AUDIENCE PROFILES: SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE 3 
 Instagram
The purpose of Instagram is to connect with other people who may have unique perspectives on the world. You may identify and follow individuals based on the types of photographs that inspire them, and they'll follow you back if you like theirs. Like and commenting are basic procedures that bring a lot of pleasure and feedback. Instagram was founded on the 6th of October 2010. 
 As shown on the graph Instagram has a mostly a young audience ranging from 15-19 years old. It also has the most gained the biggest difference from 50% to 71% over 4 years. This is because Instagram have more technologically advanced features that the older generation don’t understand

 as the graph demonstrates, more of Instagram’s user base is female than male. Businesses could use this to decide whether they would benefit form creating a social media page.
  as the graph shows 52%, which is over half the userbase, earn over £48k a year. This is because Instagram is the platform that is used by a lot of business men and women to frequently post on, they have many features such as highlights and instant messaging that attracts and appeals the business people.

One of Instagram's predominant features is instant messaging. This allows users to exchange a conversation, share posts and like messages over the platform. This means for businesses with a good campaign users may share your posts with other users, as a result this could broaden your audience. Another feature for Instagram is push notifications for favourite accounts. This allows users to receive notifications whenever an account posts or they add a story. This can be beneficial for businesses as their customers can turn this on in the settings and can see whenever that business uploads a post or a flash deal on their story.

AUDIENCE PROFILES: SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE 4 
YouTube 
YouTube was developed with the intention of allowing anybody to upload any video material they wanted. Users were expected to be able to upload, distribute, and watch content without limitation on the site. It has subsequently evolved to become one of the world's most popular video distribution platforms. YouTube was created on the 14th of February 2005.
 
As the graph demonstrates most of internet users use YouTube are aged between 15-25 and 26-35, exactly 77% of these age groups use YouTube. This is because the younger generation relies a lot more on YouTube for their entertainment purposes, tutorials on how to solve problems, and educational videos that can be used by as school as resources. 
 
The gender demographics show us that the same number of females watch YouTube as Males. This is based on the amount of internet users that use YouTube, and both Male and Female. This is because both genders use YouTube for educational purposes and for fixes. However, stereotypically Males and boys watch gaming videos and memes, whereas females and girls watch female influencers, makeup and ASMR.
 
As the graph shows the income of YouTubers varies and is pretty even. This is expected because YouTube is an inclusive platform that has content for everyone of different income types. It is also because all YouTube content is free to view.

A big feature on YouTube Is being able to post long videos. This is beneficial because most social media platforms limit the length of videos YouTube allow content creators to post videos a lot longer, some can be hours long. These long videos (or short films) are beneficial as users can be entertained by long videos. This is also beneficial as businesses can post longer ads and additional content, such as “behind the scenes”, to entertain their user base and promote their brand.
AUDIENCE PROFILES: SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE 5 
LinkedIn
It was founded on 28th of December 2002. LinkedIn was created to be a business platform where users can upload their CV and track their career profiles.
 
(Top LinkedIn Demographics That Matter to Social Media Marketers, 2021)
As the graph demonstrates, 46-55 make up most of the graph, composing up to 37%; close behind is 36-45, composing up to 34% of the graph. This is because LinkedIn is mainly for businesses so teenagers and young adults may still be in education and will not benefit from using LinkedIn. However, adults in all different parts in their career will benefit from LinkedIn as businesses can view their profile and offer them better job opportunities. 
 
(Top LinkedIn Demographics That Matter to Social Media Marketers, 2021)
As this graph demonstrates LinkedIn has more of a Male audience on their site than female. This could be because stereotypically males are known to do more with business and have more of a business influence. This is why the graph shows that LinkedIn advertise to more of a male audience than a female audience.
 
(Top LinkedIn Demographics That Matter to Social Media Marketers, 2021)
As this graph demonstrates more wealthier people are on LinkedIn. This is because wealthier people tend to have a better CV and more experience. Therefore, they will use it to talk to other business people and receive different opportunities.
A feature of LinkedIn is trending topics. This new feed will allow users to view the most trending topics on the platform. They have done this, so the user base is more engaged on the platform by pushing users to talk to each other about popular topics. Another feature is being able to upload your CV. This allows users to upload their CV and show your career profile. This is beneficial as businesses looking through LinkedIn for employees can view a user’s profile and see their career, this could potentially lead to them offering a job with better pay or better benefits.
BUSINESS APPLICATION 
It is important that businesses use demographics of different social media sites before making a social media page. They need to take multiple considerations into account: age, gender, income and different features they provide. They need to make sure these demographics match the businesses or brands target audience.
Businesses would use Facebook to target males from 25-34 years of age, that have a different income. Business such as skincare products or other healthcare products for men would target Facebook because it reaches the best target audience.
Businesses would use Twitter to target females from 25-34 years old, that have a high disposable income. Businesses such as jewellery or designer brands would want to target Twitter as it would reach their target audience. 
Businesses would use Instagram to target both male and females, aged between 15-19 years old, this means they won’t have much of an income. Therefor businesses such as game developers and mobile apps would benefit from this as teenagers are more likely to buy and download their games.
Any business could use YouTube to target both males and females, YouTube is balanced over all demographics because they are an inclusive platform with diverse content so anyone can watch it. However, YouTube has a younger audience so brands that have a younger target audience would benefit from YouTube.
Businesses would use LinkedIn to recruit and employ people. So, any business can sign up and recruit people to work for their company. They would have to target wealthy entrepreneurs for the social and business aspects, they can also offer apprentices to students and can hire people to work in the factories.
M1 ASSESS THE DIFFERENT WAYS IN WHICH A BUSINESS CAN USE SOCIAL MEDIA TO ATTRACT A TARGET AUDIENCE. 
POSTING FORMATS 
Through the features that social media offers and how they can be used to engage with their audience, businesses may reap the numerous benefits of adopting it. Using posting formats is one method of accomplishing this. Some social media platforms are better for particular types of material than others. Advertisements for a company's products, for example, would not be appropriate for social networking platforms such as Facebook, because older posts on Facebook are buried beneath all the newer information, making them harder to find and less successful for a business. YouTube is a good example of a social media platform for product advertisements because all of their content is organised into channels, making it easy for consumers to access information about a company. If this knowledge is presented in an appropriate way for social media, such as instructional YouTube videos. Then, through links, this information can be integrated into other social media accounts. Also, information can be utilised to draw a target audience on a business's social media through a poll; one notable example of a social media that does this is Instagram's storey polls, which can attract a target audience by utilising # on the story with a poll. For example, Taco bell use polls to interact with their audience and gain feedback and data for their products.  
Cdn.business2community.com. 2021. [online] Available at: <https://cdn.business2community.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/resource-twitter-polls-tacobell.jpg.jpg> [Accessed 2 December 2021].
In the example Taco Bell® have used Twitter and posted a poll asking users and customers weather they prefer crunchy or soft-shell tacos. This interaction allows Taco Bell® to collect data for their audience through their use of polls. 
Another way businesses use social media is through videos. An example would be through the use of videos. YouTube is a great platform for this because it focuses on videos. 
 
(Nike Campaign, YouTube, 2021)
Nike have used YouTube to publish their video advertisements for their campaign. This allows Nike to provide information to their customers and promote their ideology. 
Another way businesses can use social media to connect to their audience is by text. This is most commonly done by tweets on Twitter. For example, McDonald’s tweet about different deals they do. 
 
(McDonalds tweet, 2021)
In the example they use a tweet to engage their audience in their black Friday deal. This is a quick and short way that businesses can provide customers with information, as opposed to a video that takes longer but can be more engaging. 

CONTENT FOCUS AND MEANING 
Businesses can use different personalities through their social media, this is dependent on their target audience and their goals. For example, Wendy’s twitter page has a comedic and humour approach by staring the #Nationalroastday. 
 
(Redirect Notice, 2021)
On the February the 11th Wendy’s have a day that “Roast” other businesses for a day. This is beneficial for Wendy’s and other businesses as the humorous tweets gains attraction and in return gives the business more customers. Wendy’s humorous approach also fits in with its fun and entertaining ideology the business has and reaches the right target audience and their brand identity. 
Another way businesses use social media to connect to their audience is through their use of promotions. Nike do this really well on their Facebook page. 
 
(Nike page, 2021)
Nike mostly promote their products on Facebook, this is because in P2 for the analytics of Facebook, Nike have used this to data to align and promote their products with their target audience to get the most reaches and sales. In comparison to their Twitter page, they use it for customer support and social media campaigns. Businesses have to consider in what manner or formality they would want to create their social media for, factors to consider is mainly their target demographics and the platform as platforms such as LinkedIn require a much more formal approach. Businesses will also take their business goals under consideration too, such as which platform which will fit directly with their target audience as given in the Nike example. In comparison to Wendy’s Nike have a much more formal approach and this aligns with their brand identity whereas Wendy’s has a much more fun approach, this is because they appeal to different target audiences and demographics such as age and gender.

DEVELOPING AN ENGAGED AUDIENCE 
Businesses must create engaging content for their customers to keep their interest and trust. Businesses can also benefit from creating a posting schedule so customers know when to expect posts and can gain more early impression and click-through rate as well as gained trust. Another way businesses can create engaging content is by mixing it up through different posting formats, this could be as a picture, video, poll or text. The variation in content will retain more customers long term as they will be intrigued in new posts and won't get bored of similar posts every week. For example, McDonalds have at least 2 polls every week to keep their audience engaged. 
 
(MacDonald's tweet, 2021)
This engages their audience as they can expect when McDonalds will release a poll on Twitter each week. After a long period of time this can get monotonous for some customers and McDonalds will see I decrease in interactions and engagements on posts so they will have to change their posting formats. It also is very time consuming to create these posts and will cost McDonald’s money to hire staff to create and post these polls. However overall, it is advised to post a poll 1-2 times a week as a business, it would be good to make customers aware when polls will be published so customers can make sure they are online to react with the poll to maximise customer interactions on posts and keep an engaged audience over a long time. McDonalds can use Twitters analytics tool to check 


KEYWORDS 
Keywords are important on both posts and in the page. Keywords need to be relevant to the product or service they are trying to promote, this reaches out to a larger audience and increases the post and page interactions and views. This can be done in the form of hashtags on Twitter. For example, MacDonald’s always use hashtags on their tweets.  
(MacDonald's tweet, 2021)
This is beneficial as it reaches a larger audience for McDonald’s and get more early impressions on their post. It is visible to users on the tweet and can click on them to get other posts using the same tweet.
YouTube also use keywords on both profile pages and on individual posts. Businesses could use this promote both their pages and videos by using relevant and organised keywords they are more likely to show up on users searches due to YouTube’s algorithm. In comparison Twitter’s hashtags offers a more interactive approach as users can click on the keywords and are visible on the tweet. Whereas on YouTube keywords are used to increase a business's organic searches of their page and content. Keywords are hidden from the user unless an analytics tool such as VidIq is used to view them, so the keywords act as metadata for pages and content. 


DEVELOPING CONTACTS WITH RELEVANT BUSINESSES 
It is important that businesses develop contacts and relationship with other businesses, this is because from a social media standpoint it can gain a brand a bigger reputation and a broader target audience on multiple platforms.
  
(twimg,2021)
 
(Twitter - DropsByJay, 2021)
In the example first Adidas Retweeted their competitor's post Nike promoting their ideology, then Nike commented with a heart emoji which showed appreciation of the retweet. Though this is not a physical collaboration these competitors sharing each other's content shows that there is respect between businesses and how they share the same brand identity. However, there is the potential of controversy as Adidas could be doing this to try take Nikes customers by showing they have a similar brand identity and trying to promote their brand to a broader audience. Even though this is not a physical collaboration it shows that there is a relationship between competitors rivalling to be the better brand. On the other hand, Nike have done a collaboration with another designer clothing brand called Supreme. As shown in the second example they physically collaborated to make a new show. They used a popular social media influencer to also collaborate by posting the new shoe and its release date on Twitter. By Nike using an influencer it’s a great way for wider content sharing for a broader target audience and it creates a relationship between allows the influencer to promote the product before its released.
I recommend that a business collaborates with business that have similar brand identity and mainly a similar target audience. This is because businesses won't gain any benefit or customers collaborating with other businesses with different audience demographics as they won't appeal to them gain no real benefit. It is important to also have similar brand identities as it is important that there will be a stable relationship between two different businesses, and they will get along. Such as Burger King won't be a suitable collaboration with a vegan or plant-based business as they promote different ideologies and won’t have a good relationship.

DIRECT AND INDIRECT ADVERTISING 
Direct advertising is a marketing strategy that aims to reach customers directly, without the need of an intermediary. Indirect advertising is a type of marketing that focuses on building the trust of potential customer first. Its goal is to increase brand awareness and encourage potential clients to purchase from a business. 
 
(Direct Advertising Tweet, 2021)
In this example the popular brand Men Shave Club creates a post on Facebook directly advertising their club to their customers. They do this by using text at the top using persuasive text followed by multiple images. It tells customers that they should sign up and why they would.
 
(Indirect advertising example, 2021)
In this example Innocent smoothies have commented on someone's tweet on Twitter indirectly advertising their product. They have especially done this to try competing with another product in a friendly manner and explain why their product is better. By doing this Innocent have tried to make their brand known to this individual and gained their loyalty, this tweet does not directly tell the user why they should their product but hints as why their products are better than their competitors.
Both Direct and indirect advertising need to be balanced out as both of them have their pros and cons. Direct advertising is done through various posting formats such as: text, images and videos. This allows businesses to get information across the best way. Indirect advertising can be through polls, quizzes/survey, collabs and comments. This allows a business to either gather information or gain customers loyalty, it could even be to inform them about a product without telling them directly to buy it. It should also be on the business goal, for example, if the business’s goal was to make more sales, direct advertising would be used to fit the businesses goals. On the other hand, if a business's goal was to create a social media presence, they would lean towards more indirect advertisements to fit the goal. 
If there was an imbalance of direct and indirect advertisements the business will struggle to meet their goals as they would reply on too much on one advertisement method. If a business only focused on direct advertisement, then customers may think they are demanding and if it was a new business then they won't have many or any customers to promote to. Whereas if a business uses indirect advertainments only then they will have a large about of customers but not enough advertising telling them to buy their products limiting the businesses potential for profit.


LINKS TO OTHER COMMERCIAL INFORMATION 
Through the characteristics that social media offers and how they can be utilised to engage with their audience, businesses may reap the numerous benefits of adopting it. This is demonstrated by the strategies used to get consumers to visit a company's website. There are numerous unique capabilities on social media platforms for sharing material to websites and other social media accounts; one example is the use of bios embedding links into their accounts, which allows viewers to see the firm's website and utilise it if they are interested in the company. For use in other websites' embedded content YouTube allows companies to embed YouTube videos into their websites using html and social media profiles via links. These capabilities allow companies to display material from various social media networks and websites wherever; there are options for doing so in social media biographies and post captions. Facebook and other social media sites provide information on how many people utilise the business account's links, such as how many individuals clicked on the link and how long it took them to do so.
 
(Razer Profile, 2021)
 
(Twitter Analytics, 2021)
 
(Josh Allen stronger than one advert, 2021)
For picture one, Razer has successfully linked their other social media accounts and their website through settings on the twitter account customization, which may be linked to the target audience through the ability to share the account on twitter through a link. The users may then click on the integrated links in their account bio for their genuine products and services or their alt account for FAQs and more, resulting in a larger audience for Razer. For image two, this shows the dashboard for data on what people did when users interact with the advert or post; this gives good information on things like click through rates with users, which shows how many people clicked on the link implemented on the post or advert; this has good information on whether the post or advert is efficient and good enough for users to choose to click on something like a company website or other social media; this information gained from the post or advert. In example three, if a company uploads a video to YouTube, such as an advertisement, users can then embed the video on their websites and other social media platforms via a link. This is beneficial for reaching a larger target audience because the video is linked to the company's YouTube page, which may also include links to company websites and other resources. This provides the company more exposure, with a larger number of people learning about the company's websites and other social media pages, which might help them sell more items and services. In comparison businesses could find sharing posts to be more beneficial than likes. As likes may boost their SEO and make their post more visible to a broader audience, however sharing allows users to share a businesses content with other users that have the same interests and fit in with the brand identity. However as stated businesses can use analytics to check which elements have the most interactions and click-through rate. 
As shown in the first example Razer have embedded their e-commerce website in the description of their Twitter page. They have also linked their twitter on their e-commerce site through backlinks so users can view their twitter and gain more traffic to their page.

SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMISATION 
Search engine optimization, or SEO, is a collection of techniques for improving the look and positioning of web pages in organic search results. Because organic search is the most common way for people to find and access material online, an effective SEO plan is critical for raising the number of visitors to your site. 
An impact of increasing SEO on a business is placing higher up in searches, this will increase click-through rate and increase overall organic searches. This could also have a negative affect because if a business uses inappropriate or bad SEO practices this could make them rank even low decreasing organic searches and makes them rely on advertisements.
Good SEO can drive more traffic and users towards businesses social media page. This means that there is potential for new customers and existing customers to follow their page. It will also increase their brand awareness as it will increase the amounts of visits it receives and become recognise. This could help the business gain more followers and get a broader audience. Businesses such as Razer had done in the previous section, businesses can link their social media page to an external source such as other web pages and make them more informed about a business. 
A good way of gaining high search results is using highly searched keywords and making sure they are relevant to their brand identity. Making sure the social media website page loads quickly also increase the SEO of a business’s social media page as it ranks higher on a browser search. Another way to increase SEO and higher search rankings is good feedback. This is used for Facebook pages and other websites with ratings. Good ratings increase search engine optimisation by recommending users the best results and good feedback shows that a business is highly reputable therefore ranking higher in searches.
 Increasing SEO of a business’s social media page takes lots of time and research. It can also be costly for businesses as the have to employ people to do this and may not benefit enough to make more of a profit. It usually costs money to have the licencing for the tools to analyse and research the keywords to use.

D1 EVALUATE THE BUSINESS USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA TO INTERACT WITH CUSTOMERS AND PROMOTE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES TO A TARGET AUDIENCE. 
EFFECTIVE USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA: CASE STUDY 1 
A famous basketball player kyrie Irving made an advertisement with Nike’s campaign “Its only crazy until you do it”, it focuses on how get motivated and became a star with his dad.
Nike New Commercial Kyrie Irving

 This became popular because it gave customers motivation to workout. But also, broke stereotypes by Nike trying to normalise that people, even adults, can still practice and workouts with their dads or other family members. The fun nature of the advertisements makes it engaging for the audience as it shows the fun nature of basketball and playing with family can be fun, linking back to the purpose of the campaign. They have used YouTube to release the commercial as it used to publish long videos which is their main feature of the platform. This aligns with their target audience as in P2 the analytics for YouTube as it is mostly a male audience which aligns with the target audience which is for males.
I liked the nature and the tone of the example as it shows a formal business such as Nike can still be fun and enjoyable. Other businesses can take this and apply it to not only appeal to a larger audience but also if they wanted to change their brand identity. This video gained over 40k views and got multiple positive comments.  
As the example shows positive feedback from a user commenting on the post engaging with it and enjoying the campaign.

EFFECTIVE USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA: CASE STUDY 2 
Spotify's annual 'Wrapped' promotion takes place every year, but 2021 was particularly significant since it evaluated user listening data from the previous decade. It's primarily run from within the Spotify app, but there's a significant social media component to it. They not only used bright colours and visuals to entice users to access their own 'Wrapped' data, but they also gave them with personalised graphics that they could share on their own social media feeds.
 
(Wrapped, 2021)
This campaign allowed users to view the overall number of hours listened, the most played songs and artists, the number of new artists found, and the top genres were all visible to users. Of course, Spotify allowed users to share their figures in a formatted Instagram, Twitter, or other social media post. This feature fits in with the target audience as it allows users share to other popular social media site which is popular with Spotify’s target demographics. The choice social media platform aligns with the audience profile because Spotify’s user base in 13-20 years old. This means most of them have other social media accounts and can use the share feature to increase Spotify’s brand awareness. The #SpotifyWrapped became the 3rd post trending hashtag as people used it to compare their listening habits and their favourite artists.
What I liked about the campaign is the bright colours and the friendliness of the campaign. I also like the ability to see your demographics over the year and compare it to other users. Other businesses that have similar brand identities could use this method to provide users their statistics in a fun way. One thing that could be improved is making it more inclusive and provide different ways in which the data was represented. As the first campaign had a video which Spotify did not. 


HOW RISKS MAY IMPACT SOCIAL MEDIA USE 


CONCLUSION 
When businesses are looking into creating a business account, they need to take multiple factors under consideration. Firstly, they need to make sure that they use the analytics within P2 to make sure it reaches the right target audience. Secondly the internet is unpredictable and there may be a sudden shift in trends within social media. Lastly they need to have good SEO to ensure that they place highly in searches. 
REFERENCES 
Social Media Marketing & Management Dashboard. 2021. Top LinkedIn Demographics That Matter to Social Media Marketers. [online] Available at: <https://blog.hootsuite.com/linkedin-demographics-for-business/#age> [Accessed 17 November 2021].
Youtube.com. 2021. Nike Campaign, YouTube. [online] Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=20H8IBv8dKo> [Accessed 3 December 2021].
Twitter. 2021. McDonalds tweet. [online] Available at: <https://twitter.com/McDonaldsUK/status/1464246568006074372> [Accessed 4 December 2021].
Google.com. 2021. Redirect Notice. [online] Available at: <https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.boredpanda.com%2Fnational-roast-day-wendys%2F&psig=AOvVaw0RGU7YvZ-RpJ5rbG6TrbA6&ust=1638701348611000&source=images&cd=vfe&ved=0CAsQjRxqFwoTCLDt-rX8yfQCFQAAAAAdAAAAABAo> [Accessed 4 December 2021].
Facebook.com. 2021. Nike page. [online] Available at: <https://www.facebook.com/nike/> [Accessed 4 December 2021].
Twitter. 2021. MacDonald's tweet. [online] Available at: <https://twitter.com/McDonalds/status/1414980390276767753> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Twitter. 2021. MacDonald's tweet. [online] Available at: <https://twitter.com/McDonaldsUK/status/1460943175367987208> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Pbs.twimg.com. 2021. [online] Available at: <https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EZRS2CYWAAE5sL5.jpg> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Twitter. 2021. Twitter - DropsByJay. [online] Available at: <https://twitter.com/dropsbyjay/status/1447511903186522114?lang=en-GB> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Media.sproutsocial.com. 2021. Direct Advertising Tweet. [online] Available at: <https://media.sproutsocial.com/uploads/2018/05/Dollar-Shave-Club.png> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Allbusiness.com. 2021. Indirect advertising example. [online] Available at: <https://www.allbusiness.com/asset/2020/02/guinea-pigs.png> [Accessed 8 December 2021].
Twitter. 2021. Razer Profile. [online] Available at: <https://twitter.com/Razer> [Accessed 9 December 2021].
Th.bing.com. 2021. Twitter Analytics. [online] Available at: <https://th.bing.com/th/id/R.035f8e1faee29f3159c5ea144f02c7ca?rik=2xNPuDxmgJl9FA&riu=http%3a%2f%2fwww.digitalvidya.com%2fwp-content%2fuploads%2f2017%2f05%2fTwitter-Analytics-10.png&ehk=42urDhAp6VVRW2nLRnuyfiZzCHQPNTFMbEjL3%2f2b7wA%3d&risl=&pid=ImgRaw&r=0> [Accessed 9 December 2021].
Youtube.com. 2021. Josh Allen stronger than one advert. [online] Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6BV-7Ymtxkc> [Accessed 9 December 2021].
I2.wp.com. 2021. Wrapped. [online] Available at: <https://i2.wp.com/lifestyleug.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/lifestyleug.com__Spotify-Wrapped-2021-with-Azawi-1.png?fit=1440%2C733&ssl=1> [Accessed 9 December 2021].
